Post: dropping MySQL (#1404)
theforeman/theforeman.org: _posts/2019-08-01-dropping-support-for-mysql.md

---
layout: post
title: Dropping support for MySQL

> date: 2019-08-01 9:34:21

Reviewer: Also this should be updated

standard, the problem is that very often behavior is different. Most of our
development team use PostgreSQL and there are dozens of things that are
different in MySQL. Therefore we need to identify those problems, find a way to
fix them and then carry extra bit of code in our codebase for life. This takes
a lot of our time we could invest in features, bugfixing or performance
improvements.

We have dicussed preferring PostgreSQL many times, but [the last time was
different](https://community.theforeman.org/t/minimum-rdbm-requirements/14127)
and we came to conclusion that dropping MySQL the right thing to do. [The
plan](https://community.theforeman.org/t/rfc-dropping-support-for-mysql/14185)
was then set and we are at the beginning of the journey where the first and
really difficult step is on you, our users:

**Foreman 1.24 will be the last version with MySQL support.**

The upcoming versions 1.23 and 1.24 will also send a notification to all
administrators in case it's running on MySQL. Don't worry, we will let you
close the warning as soon as you see it, but we want to communicate this
properly and in advance. We highly recommend to do the database migration to

> PostgreSQL during upgrade to version 1.23 because if there is a blocker bug

Reviewer: Since we want them to use the updated script:
```suggestion
PostgreSQL right after upgrade to version 1.23 because if there is a blocker bug
```

that prevents from migrating to MySQL, there is still a backup plan of holding
off migration and staying on MySQL for one more release until we come up with

> versions 1.24 or 1.25 which will be PostgreSQL only. This is important:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a version which will be PostgreSQL only. This is important:
```

**Do not wait with the migration for Foreman 1.24.**

Along with the 1.23 release, we will provide official [migration

> documentation](/manuals/nightly/index.html#3.7MigratingtoPostgreSQL), and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documentation](/manuals/1.23/index.html#3.7MigratingtoPostgreSQL), and
```

Author: Why not to point to the most recent version when a random user finds the post after some time? Updated instructions might be quite helpful I am pretty sure we will run into issues.

Reviewer: because we will not have that section in the manual once we drop mysql

Author: Why would we ever remove section named "Migration from MySQL to PostgreSQL" in the future? People are far behind with upgrading, we should keep it.

Reviewer: because we don't want to carry around stuff in the manual that isn't used anymore, if people in the future do the upgrade they will still find the instructions in the 1.23/1.24 manual
